I'm a big fan of the value prop. I want
to hear the entrepreneur explain how
they're generating real value for the
customer. In fact, I I think when I look
at what makes for the perfect
investment, I have kind of thought about
the the five ingredients to me all at
zero. Perfect investment. So,
[Music]
I thought it would be fun to begin with
a kind of weird but interesting question
per our past conversations, which is if
you could go back in time and think
about the original SoftBank vision fund,
which was hundred billion, huge fund. Of
course, everyone was talking about it.
Who knows what'll end up happening with
it. The story is still not fully
written, but if you could go back in
time and you were fully personally in
charge of deploying that hundred billion
dollar fund, how would you have
approached that problem? It's a lot of
money to put out the door in a couple of
years. How would you have done it?
Personally,
>> I I first of all, it was an eye openener
to me when it happened and uh you know,
we had sort of a small strategy that I
always envisioned could be a big
strategy, but maybe to kind of go
backwards and say what are the best
call it private equity venture deals of
all time. Yeah.
>> And this is a cheat answer. It's not the
real answer, but I would say in my own
view probably the most cleanest, best
example of of return is probably VMware.
Technically EMC was the private equity
buyer. They spent about $650 million and
sold it for 60 billion. So that's a $60
billion gain plus or minus. Uh you could
argue Instagram billion to probably a
trillion. You could say YouTube is
probably a billion to a trillion. So
interesting if you look at some of the
M&A that strategic companies have made
with some synergy that probably
delivered a portion of that gain. But I
would argue a lot of that was going to
happen. Independent PayPal another good
example. Uh almost no real eBay I think
effect that really drove that. And I
thought to myself, we had done a bunch
of what we call venture buyouts and some
were growth buyouts in and these could
have been hundred million dollar
investments of taking control of smaller
software companies where we made five,
six, sometimes more times our money.
>> And I just always had in my head I would
love to be competing with Microsoft. or
Palo Alto or uh eBay for a deal because
then the entrepreneur was like, "Wow, I
could have my cake and eat it too,
right? I could sell to Jeff for a
billion dollars my next Instagram and
still retain massive ownership, maybe
even get reloaded on the options. I'm
not 100% sensitive on those sometimes
and that kind of a deal." And we've done
that and we've had some bigger deals
where we bought companies for about a
billion dollars and uh there were small
smaller growth standards. So there were
not like what you would consider to be
classic buyouts where you have cash
flows and debt and all sorts of other
things underpinning it. It was really
just the markets and the growth and the
entrepreneurs that you're betting on.
And I thought if I had $100 billion
rather that's what I would do. I would
be like wow wouldn't that be interesting
because I think you could really
differentiate yourself tremendously from
the pack. And interestingly Masa did one
deal like that called ARM and it I think
he's made four times his money on a
really big check maybe more. I haven't
tracked the stock lately. So uh you know
pushing it to late stage growth I
thought was a much harder strategy both
for companies to consume that capital
valuations that you needed to pay to get
into those deals to justify that capital
though obviously he made that return in
Alibaba he made that return in uh I
guess Yahoo was probably more my example
Yahoo Japan of where he bought control
of something and and turned it into a
massive win. So anyway, that was kind of
a dream I've always had. And people
often ask, how does one scale
>> our industry? And certainly if you look
at those types of outcomes, you'd be
like, well, I guess there's a chance you
could do it. Could we compete
>> Yeah.
>> for those deals? I don't know. But uh it
certainly on paper pencils out.
>> Obviously, Insight has raised some of
the largest funds in our industry, 10
plus billion, 20 billion. What size
would you set a fund 100 billion or some
other number if you wanted to do today
in 2025 the thing you just described
like how big would it have to get so
that you were actually competitive with
the
>> today's tougher it's tougher I mean when
I first this was probably 2016
>> uh when the vision fund came around and
you know the concept of liquidity
billion dollar exits as a massive
victory for the venture I mean to get
benchmark or sequoia to sell something
for a billion dollars probably doesn't
get their heart rate up today. So, the
likelihood that they would do those
deals again today knowing what the world
looks like and what the upside could be
for these types of assets is pretty
small.
>> So, I think it's just a little bit
harder because the scale has changed.
But, you know, we still and we look for
these sub a billion is really the sweet
spot that we could consider. But to find
hyperrowth
shareholders willing to exit is still
tricky. Uh, and most of the deals
getting done under that are getting
bought for really strategic reasons
where the financials can't even be
imagined
>> and modeled out, right? Palo Alto pays
$500 million for 30 guys in Israel,
that's a different
>> game that we can't really compete with.
>> And so, if you were to size a fund
today, put it a little bit differently
for the best possible riskadjusted
return where like fund size dictates the
strategy, where do you think you would
size it?
>> I think we're pretty close.
>> What's your marginal one?
>> We're about 12 billion. Okay.
>> And you know, so we're deploying three
plus billion a year in invested capital
across a range of strategies. But I
would say we definitely don't feel
capital constrained to the opportunity
set. I think if we were to, and I don't
think this is part of our strategy, lean
in on some of these big late stage
growth rounds, you could envision a
bigger fund. And certainly others have
raised money specific to target that
type of deal flow. That's not really the
thing that that's more of a maybe a
better version of that vision fund where
you're buying into open AI or anthropic
in big volume at latest stage prices,
but it's it's not really what we we
don't lose sleep over
>> Yeah.
>> that not being our core strategy.
>> What do you make of this? I think you
you were investor in the big data bricks
round in anthropic more recently. What
do you make of the latest stage private
markets today? It's gotten it's gotten
so interesting and crazy relative to
when you started Insight. You've had a
bunch of folks on this podcast I've
heard who've talked about the changing
private public market dynamics and you
know there's I mean that data bricks is
still a private company at this scale is
sort of unheard of. Uh you could argue
OpenAI is still a young company
relatively speaking to the timing of its
revenues, but um for reasons that maybe
represent just the shifting of capital,
uh companies are staying private longer
and doing basically IPO plus plus rounds
in the private markets. And you know,
look, we look at these like we look at
anything else through a lens of, you
know, what's the forecast, what's the
likely exit value, and what's the return
on that capital. Once in a very rare
while you see something at size that
prices in a way that you feel like you
can make riskadjusted venture-like
returns.
>> Maybe a a fun thing before we get into
insights strategy specifically is to
talk about your day and your life as an
investor. What's interesting and unusual
about you, there's basically nothing
available about you on the internet. You
don't give interviews like this. You
seem to just be a heads down investor.
um you you could have long ago retired
and and yet I it my sense from talking
to some people on your team and and
talking to you is that you're working
about as hard as you've ever done it.
What is like a given week look like for
you
>> today and it wasn't always the funnest
day. Uh I would say starts with some
internal meetings of just you know
investment committee looking at
>> people's new deals uh partners meeting
to spend time together and kind of sync.
So this is, you know, first day back
kind of day, uh, in this case, but that
would be a typical Monday.
>> And then I'd say a big portion of my day
is going to be dedicated to prospects.
>> And I make a point, as do most of my
senior partners, to be spending as much
time as possible hearing the stories,
whether it's in person or by Zoom, uh,
of new companies. Then there'll be a
fair amount of portfolio calls. So I
probably had three calls so far today on
uh portfolio companies hopefully more
strategic in nature than just you know
what's your latest quarter and then some
internal meetings on we had we'll talk
about it later on you know how we're
scaling the firm and do using AI to do
diligence and all sorts of fun things
like that.
>> So it's sort of a a big blend of where I
think I can contribute. What I try to do
and no one's perfect at this is spend as
little time as possible on things I'm
not good at
>> of which there's a pretty long list. So,
you know, I think those are areas where
I think I can have a meaningful impact
>> and uh and also enjoy it. So, it's a lot
of fun for me to do that.
>> What would you say uh is the the skill
on the prospect side evaluating a
founder, a business, whatever that
you've most improved at over the
entirety of of insights existence. So,
you today versus you in 9596.
>> I'll say team broadly because some of us
are much better at this than I am. I
think our analysis of what numbers
matter has changed a lot.
>> Uh I remember six years ago at an LP
meeting telling LPs we think we're at
like 11th grade math on software. The
industry is probably at seventh grade
math on software. I think we're getting
closer to college today. Uh it's still
amazing what we continue to learn about
metrics that really are the best
predictors for future outcomes, which is
really the
>> the dream, especially in growth
investing. you have enough almost enough
data to start to kind of predict and
we've also gotten better I think at uh
kind of understanding
sort of qualitative TAM issues and then
it's a never- ending journey on
management right like every year you
learn something new in both the good and
bad ways
>> so uh you know people are always
complicated but you definitely get
better at it as you get more experienced
at it
>> can you teach us some of that college
level math and understanding software
businesses
>> well I remember five years ago one of my
companies was going public and the rage
on Wall Street was net retention. I'm
just picking a random one. I was already
at my 11th grade math. So, I'm like,
this is one of the least informative
numbers I could think of. And yet, that
was the only number that Wall Street
asks. I said, the only number that
really, well, two numbers really matter.
GDR, which is gross retention, which is
really how sticky is your customer base?
How resilient is that? And more
importantly,
>> how much of that bucket do you have to
fill every year? And you know there are
very few companies with lowish software
low would be 80s low80s gross retention
that are in the top 20 market cap
businesses. You could probably count on
three fingers companies with that
statistic. And the problem is that you
get big and let's say you're losing 20%
of your business every year on a billion
dollars of revenue. That's $200 million
of business that you have to go find
just to fill
>> the bucket. And then you of course want
to grow 30 40 50% on top of that. So
those become daunting numbers that
usually reflect itself in your average
cost of acquisition, right? So that
would be a take your net new bookings
divided by the spend that you had to get
to that. Um and those numbers really
kind of tend to to move together because
you just have to keep filling more of
the bucket with sales reps uh just to
stay even. So I think that was an
example of one. I think uh another time
years ago I think we were starting up
our public hedge fund but I thought a
lot about calling ourselves the second
derivative because so much more was
learned and I think a couple guys had
this right at Facebook like the early or
late you know kind of the billion-dollar
kind of guys that came in there but the
change in new business is way more
important than you know the change of
the change right I'm growing 100%
year-over-year my net new bookings that
second derivative is really powerful
where you see a lot of companies with
almost zero change in the new business
that they add each year off a small
number that could still look like a
really big growth rate,
>> sometimes as much as 100% or 75%.
>> But you can copyright that number if
it's flat. And that happens a lot for
example in vertical software
>> where you quickly saturate the number of
decisions made in a given year and all
of a sudden you model out five years
with a flat new bookings number and your
exit growth rate is going to be a lot
different than what Google was able to
do which was compounded 100% for 15
years. One of the things I think is so
interesting about Insight is the ability
to just price different numbers that
it's not just I think that you're buying
95 plus% gross retention and
accelerating top lines or something like
that. You'll buy companies that don't
have those metrics.
>> Changing on that a little bit. I meaning
like we keep learning that you sometimes
get fooled into the trap of value and it
is not a great way to make money in my
estimation and people do it and people
are really good at it. I'm not going to
say it's not doable, but buying cheap in
technology is is certainly there's not a
long list of really rich people who've
done that, right? As compared to the
people who've just bought the dream
where there's a very long list of people
who've made lots of money on the dream.
>> So, I think making sure those metrics
especially at scale looks like we will
not do a low gross retention business
today unless we really are confident we
could change it. Um we think that metric
is really the fundamental driver of all
exit values
>> uh and ultimately large companies. We'll
obviously make exceptions if we think we
can fix things or we think maybe there's
a good story as to why it was maybe you
know not enough sales capacity this that
but you know if you ask at least half my
partners would tell you they prefer not
to compromise on any of those metrics
like their view is if you look back in
time nine out of 10 times those metrics
have been the driving metrics for our
success. If I think about gross
retention as like one avenue of math to
go down and that's algebra 1 like what's
algebra 2 like what if you kept pressing
on gross retention as an example of how
you then keep digging into the business
how does it work zoom out the simplest
math is LTV divided by CAC right that's
all you're trying to understand is I
invest in money and put assume R&D gets
somewhat normalized to levels that are
kind of uh industry standard so that's
really what you're trying to tease out
GDR is a great predictor on LTV right
the less I lose of a customer the longer
it lasts the present value of that cash
flow stream is higher. CAC is the other
big variable on that. And then what
you're trying to figure out is the
market pull for that. Like how quickly
am I accelerating that number? Can I add
if I added 10 million of new business
this year, can I add 20 million next
year and 40 million the year after? And
the smaller the company gets, the harder
it is to tease out
>> whether you're just rapidly walking into
a finite market and you saturate that
decision- making in that market or is it
deep enough that you could imagine
growing for multiple years. So take
Whiz, which is obviously one of our
favorite stories in life and great team
and they've been able to double or more
their net new bookings each year for six
years. And just when you do that math,
if you start at 10 and start doubling
that for five years, that's a really big
number of new business added each year,
which keeps your growth rate at close to
if you literally doubled it every year,
you would have a 100% growth rate, you
know, add infin item.
>> What qualitative questions do you like
to ask on the back end of the
quantitative investigations? Like when
so let's say you've got a company that
has great gross retention, how do you
then continue to separate? So you have
to do qualitative especially as you get
earlier because a lot of these numbers
are still forming and it it's hard to be
false precision I think could get you in
trouble. I'm a big fan of the value
problem. I think when I think about
investing I want to hear the
entrepreneur explain how they're
generating real value for the customer.
uh I then kind of look at in fact I I
think when I look at what makes for the
perfect investment I have kind of
thought about the the five ingredients
to me all that's here
>> perfect investment so value prop is
critical and that usually could and
should translate to selling price right
and then I kind of distill that and say
well imagine you're going after the
hospital market we looked at a chantic
AI company in that market and if Epic
sells $10 million a year on average in
the hospital market and you're selling
half a million dollars a year in the
market. They're 20 times your size on
average selling price. Pretty hard to
imagine that you're going to be as big
as Epic, right? Like you could sort of
frame it and say, "Best case I'm
probably 120th." Epic is a dominant
player. You know, rare that anyone gets
more market share than they do in a
given sector. Best case is I'm probably
120th the size of Epic. So that's kind
of a good framing of TAM in my mind as
opposed to the how many customers are
there? Can I multiply by this? and like
the sort of top down approach I think is
is riddled with errors in and thought
whereas if you kind of look at what's my
selling price how does it compare so you
kind of want to see that average selling
price and then compare it to companies
that are targeting the same number of
customer universe and that gives you at
least a ballpark of what could be uh you
obviously want to look at the landscape
of competitors and say well what market
share am I realistically going to have I
think the hidden data point for me
especially for early companies I've
pushing on and this is where AI is sort
of a pretty neat idea is what's the time
to value right so when you think of a
customer making a decision on installing
SAP versus using open AI right one is I
literally point my cursor to a web page
and I'm getting value immediately and
the other could be a three-year very
expensive journey to change my
organization to get it up and live and
and productive and SAP has massive value
to that customer base But it's a very
long time to implement and that's going
to just inherently slow down
realistically how fast you can grow both
your own ability to succeed with those
customers but also just the decision-m
around those complex decisions. And I
think that's that's kind of framing a
little bit of that. And then I think
obviously
phenomenal CEOs are always the dream. Uh
some of that I I listen to the podcast
I'm like wow people are really a lot
smarter than I am because I sometimes
write that story after the fact. Uh I
certainly have plenty of phenomenal CEOs
that were rejected by a lot of other
firms. Uh so it's not always obvious,
but I think you certainly when you get
that ingredient right, whether you're
able to see it or whether you just, you
know, got it and then a phenomenal tech
team that goes with it right because I
think this is a world in the last 10
years where product really drives
outcomes. And you've had folks on your
show that talk about, you know,
happiness and product satisfaction,
things of that nature. putting those
five things.
>> Can you list them once more just so I
make sure I have them?
>> I'm gonna go look at my little cheat
note because I I wrote them down for
you. It's big ROI, big ASP, time to
value, CEO and tech. Yeah.
>> And management team that goes behind
that tech. That's my five. I think whiz
might be the end of
>> checked all five.
>> Yeah, maybe Monday had a bunch of that
too, but like it's it's rare like to get
the time to value and the ASP is really
rare. Does it stand to reason that you
think like for an SAP type company where
uh the benefit of that long install
process is very sticky typ you know
typically on on the other side of it
that the right time to invest in those
kinds of companies after they've gotten
their install base like that's the
better riskadjusted entry point.
>> I think for those companies I'm a I
don't know why I have this number in my
head but 15 customers that are
referenceable is sort of a magic number
for inflecting on growth. So the
challenge with those companies is as
much they're very hard to sell those
products. It's a lot of missionary
selling early on. And so you can't
really scale your sales organization
until you have a certain number of
referenceable customers
>> that you could lean on. And you know if
every sales guy is pointing to the same
reference site, that customer gets a
little annoyed after a while.
>> So you're kind of constrained by that.
But around 15, not only do you know the
product is really pretty solid, but you
also have an ability to start to think
about supply constraints to scaling, not
demand constraints to scaling.
>> Maybe you can um walk through the one
fund strategy that you've chosen to
pursue at Insight, which is really
interesting. And I'm especially
interested in how in a fund that's $12
billion, it's worth your time to look at
say like a $10 million investment or
something like this. So that tension is
fascinating to me and the one fund
strategy is fascinating to me. I know
you have strong beliefs about it. So
maybe describe why it is this way and
and the trade-offs. I'll give you a
couple angles on it, but first I was
lucky enough to get my first job and it
was a lot of luck and somebody who
believed in me that hired me um at
Warberg Pinkis which you know founded in
1968 maybe the world was a different
world anyway but sort of developed a one
fund strategy there is included stage
and industry right so they were kind of
stage agnostic industry agnostic some of
that was mapping to LP demand for the
biggest of LPs back then the pension
plans there's Two things I think that if
you taught finance in classic portfolio
theory, you would be sort of scratching
your head and thinking, gee, why isn't
everybody doing this? So, one is risk
management. So, one of the really
interesting things about the vision fund
was their ability to write a $200
million check that was inconsequential
to the return of the fund.
>> So, it did give you the obviously you
could abuse that and take risk that
maybe aren't sensible risks, but it was
sort of fascinating that you could most
of us really sweat out those big checks,
right? And we're really pretty
riskaverse. We want to make sure the
downside is absolutely locked in.
Probably the 2x case is really visible.
There's very few firms out there. Vision
fund was probably the one exception that
could look at that and say, I could
think of that divide by a hundred as a
$2 million check in a billion dollar
fund where we all could easily say, "Oh,
of course I'm not going to get too
worked up over a $2 million check. I'll
take a flyer." So, there's a little bit
of just risk management. And you could
do it with check size. So, you could
look at stages slightly differently. um
you could look at different types of bet
sort of differently. And the second
advantage a single fund has in my view
is I think all my peers would sort of
admit that the best bet on the table is
the double down bet, right? In
blackjack, we all know that, right?
You've got an 11 against a five, you
double down. Like it's the best bet in
the not only do they give you the good
odds, but you know, you have way more
information than you had before you got
the hand out.
>> And you know, we're not all perfect.
Sometimes we fall in love with our
babies, but if you went back in time and
looked at our double down checks, they
were our best checks. And if you kind of
looked at that, we've taken5 to10
million positions. We took a $5 million
position to a billion dollar position.
>> We never would have seen the billion
dollar position without getting the
relationship with management with a $5
million position. We've routinely in
some of our biggest exits from Monday
and CENO a bunch have started with under
$25 million bets that have come up to
$200 million over time and we just see
secondary opportunities. We see followon
opportunities. So if you kind of zoom
out you're like isn't that the most
rational way to do it? Like why would
you do anything else? And I know there's
some phenomenal firms I've heard on
other podcasts that I have a ton of
respect for and they intentionally want
to give that bet away. Uh and then
obviously the more common approach now
is I'll have a separate pool of capital
for that bet. But that has its own
constraints, right? Because sometimes
the kind of charter of that fund, the
pitch to the LPs is a little more
nuanced and you find yourself in tweener
bets. And I'm sure you could talk to a
bunch of early investors that have
growth funds that aren't always at their
best deals and you're like, well, how'd
that happen?
>> Right? Now, sometimes they find a way to
do it and it's great, but a lot of times
they they actually because the bit the
deals get bit up a little earlier than
they expect doesn't really fit what you
would consider to be a typical pitch to
a growth fund, but it's clearly not an
early stage bet anymore. And it's check
size is too big for an early stage bet.
What do I do with it? And we don't have
to think about any of those conflicts.
And we certainly don't have to think
about conflicts between the two funds,
which is really, you know, it could be
managed, but it's not zero. like am I
bailing the company out? Am I really
supporting it? Like
>> how that all looks optically could get
funny over time.
>> What are the biggest downsides of doing
it this way? Like what what annoyances
does it introduce that maybe you
wouldn't have to deal with had you
>> I think the biggest is you lose a little
bit of discipline from third party
pricing. It goes both ways. So sometimes
we pra deals and we think we get great
deals. I'd say more often than not
that's the belief that we have is we
make it easy for the founder. The pitch
to the founder is you're done. If you
want us, you got us for life. If you
want to go out to find another partner,
that's okay, too. Like, we've got our
position. We're not going to be upset
with that. But we're also here to
support you the entire journey. Up till
2017 18, that was really common.
>> You know, the world got really
competitive starting in 18 and and a lot
of those follow-on checks. We even if we
wanted, we couldn't get them at the
values that we thought were exciting or
the founders just wanted to get third
party pricing
>> for their own reasons and we're going to
support that. But, you know, the
downside is you could kind of believe
your own PS. You can get a little sloppy
with a small like the $2 million kick
save checks. I got to keep this. I want
to bridge to a sale. I want to do this
that. I could argue that goes both ways.
Plenty of those have actually worked out
where we have bridged to a sale. We have
recaped the company and and and gotten
some of our original money back. But you
could certainly see how you could be
chasing good money after bad if you're
not careful.
>> And what about from the LP's
perspective? Like does the one fund
strategy, is that a feature to them? Is
it a bug? Does it depend on the LP?
>> We don't fit into a bucket. My whole
life I've never fit into a clean bucket.
And that's the probably the most glaring
one. How do you man? How do you think
about that? I'm like, well, you know,
doesn't feel like that at all when
you're on the inside. It just feels like
a a pretty welloiled process. But I
think from the outside, we look like an
N of one. Uh, you know, you go back in
time to firms that scaled over the
years. They almost always scaled on
check size. And one of the reasons
Insight exists today is literally
because some of the best firms in the
world at the time we started it were
moving up market and putting in sort of
rules of we do $50 million checks, we do
$100 million checks for the reason you
outline because those are the checks
that will probably move the needle. Uh
though obviously Sequoia and Benchmark
and others will tell you otherwise. Like
they've written plenty of $5 million
checks that have been breathtaking in
outcome. But, you know, I can sort of
see the logic as you get bigger that
that's a temptation to kind of put that
sort of constraint in place. And, you
know, our DNA just didn't want that
anyway. So, some of this was not fully
thought out in the way I've described
it, but it it in fact holds really well
to time. Uh, and some of it was just our
DNA was so driven off of sourcing. And
the history of Insight was sort of based
on some experiences where I found some
small deals that didn't fit with a
bigger firm and I was like, I don't want
to be that guy again. I don't want
capital to dictate my strategy. Um, and
it turns out it doesn't have to. Like
you could get a little bit invested in
and find your way to backing up the
truck for bigger ownership. Uh, and then
as the world changed, it's increasingly
hard to come in late. So now I would
argue that there's some really good
firms that have been around for as long
as we have that were the pre-minent
latestage funds that
like us look at some of these later
rounds are like that's a pretty tough
spreadsheet. There are other ways to
deploy that capital that seem better
riskreward adjusted. Um, now again
there's some that are great, but most
I'd say the spreadsheets start to look
like, you know, two to 3x. You could do
much lower risk buyouts or venture
buyouts or other types of deals with the
same return curve with a lot more upside
and an ability to control your destiny
in a better way. So, uh, I think it's
sort of become a bit of a necessity too
to get on the balance sheet uh, by
getting in a little bit earlier.
>> You mentioned sourcing in the early days
of insight. so much path dependency to
all these stories. If you ask people
that study this industry to say
something about insight, I think the
first thing they'll say is something
about your sourcing strategy. And so now
would be a great time to just like hear
how it what it is and how it evolved.
And maybe that'll be a good jumping off
point into investing firms that have
strategies or not um as businesses. But
but let's start with sourcing. When I
wrote the original business plan, which
is not tremendously different than
today, uh, which is a longer story, but
I was leaving Warberg, I actually I love
software, wanted to just do software and
was really interested in doing smaller
deals than that firm was set up to do at
the time. And uh, nobody would hire me.
So I tried to get a job at at least
three of the leading then software was
tiny. It was IBM and Microsoft just to
put a setting in the world. SAP was sort
of this mainframe guy coming along.
Oracle was probably the coolest cat in
town in terms of like open systems,
whatever you want to call it back then,
client server compute, but it was a
really really small market. Like you can
count on one hand, I think the top 50
software companies, like number 50 was
like 10 million. Like it was tiny.
>> Um, but I loved it. I thought it was a a
big growth bucket. I thought
specialization
uh had a real edge. uh we were
disadvantaged by being in New York. I
mean, I guess I could have moved, but I
had family and other reasons why I like
New York a lot. And so trying to compete
on the West Coast terms made no sense to
me. Um and so one picking an area of
specialization where the model was still
pretty new to people and it was pretty
different than the hardware companies
before it that were really the more
typical uh venture investing. uh and the
DNA of a sales guy of software back then
and Oracle's DNA that was a really
different DNA than what most folks were
used to. So we thought specialization
was absolutely critical to understanding
an industry really well and we picked
software. In hindsight it was probably
the best bet I've ever made, but like it
wasn't cuz I saw the vision to where it
is today by any stretch. So that was
kind of this the start of it all. And in
like the mid 90s, like early 90s I
should say, I was still at Warberg. went
to a conference and Kevin Landry who was
at the time the founder and managing
partner at TA Associates was presenting
to a large crowd and he was walking
through his playbook and I was like the
classic Vince Lombardi story like here
it is I don't really care
good luck good luck was his comment like
no one and I'm like 26 years old I'm
like all right like that's pretty cool
he's ripping out I help wanted ads from
the New York Times or whatever magazine
that you're reading and he's calling
these companies up and it turned out
back And it was a really opaque market.
Very few companies were, you know, other
than those in Silicon Valley were out
there raising capital in any
professional way. Uh, and entrepreneurs
were really receptive to just being
called up and saying, "Hey, I think
you've got something cool.
>> Would you be interested in uh talking to
me?" And I started at Warberg. I sourced
a bunch of deals that way, which was
pretty unusual for what was largely a
shake the tree partner kind of model. um
and realize I could find deals all day
long like this and especially software
lent itself to being outside Silicon
Valley especially applications right
because if you're building banking
software do you want to be in Silicon
Valley or New York City if you're
building pharma applications you want to
be in New Jersey or do you want to be in
uh Silicon Valley and I can go down the
list right of industries that you know
really made sense to be much closer to
your customers
>> which themselves had clusters around the
US and even in Europe this was like a
nice add to the fact and And most
software companies back then started as
consulting projects that got
bootstrapped to some degree to a
product.
>> So you could actually find these things
well after their incubation phase and
startup phase which again was very
counter to the uh West Coast model. Um
and so I hear Landry speak. I start
doing what he's doing and I'm like this
is working. I could do this. And we
start Insight. I had a partner with of
mine that was sort of a consultant to
Warberg. We started up. We just start
sourcing deals and almost like on the
phone call calling everybody and you
know we found a bunch of deals before we
had a fund and then we kind of put
together scrapped together $16 million
blind pool of capital from some high net
worth folks and and that was what begot
insight. But in that thesis was focus
sourcing and then the focus was going to
give you both an ability to source
better because you knew where to look,
you knew what magazines to read, you
knew what trade shows to go to. All that
kind of lent itself to the same. But it
also gave you a chance to think about
how do I add more value to the companies
I invest in. And we were actually the
lead investor in almost everything we
did. These were kind of bootstrap
businesses that didn't have partners.
And I wanted to be helpful to the
founders. And most of the founders were
technical by background and didn't
really have that Oracle sales DNA that
was really the cutting edge of what B2B
software was back then. and we started
to build some network of people who knew
how to do that and ultimately brought
some of those folks in-house and one of
my first hires as a partner was somebody
who was president of one of my companies
who was one of the best sales guys I'd
ever met. Um and so that was kind of the
thesis, right? So focus sourcing value
ad by being the best at what we could
be. Um and obviously the world's changed
a lot since then, but those core
ingredients are still 100% insight. So
if you think about the the sourcing
platform inside of insight and chunk it
up into chapters back into the mid 90s
through to today, how what are the major
chapters like how is it?
>> Chapter one is me and my partner then
>> calling people. Uh chapter two is I I
hired three associates uh one out of
Summit uh Mike Triplet which was a big
decision and Mike brought me concrete
I've been there done it at the best of
the best my partner Jeff Lieberman and
and one other partner and so they
started doing it too and you know Mike
was you know for him it was second
nature because he'd been doing it his
whole career which wasn't very long at
the time he was probably 25 but uh long
enough and that kind of elevated us and
we were kind of basically investors
doing it ourselves. And then we made a
decision in 1999. We hired a young man
out of Dartmouth, which is where Mike
went to school. Uh, and he became our
first official analyst. We decided to go
right after the undergrad kids because
we realized it's a really hard job and
if you've actually been working at
Goldman Sachs or Mackenzie, you kind of
get spoiled
>> and you don't want to go back to picking
up a phone and calling somebody up
without any context. So, it's it's a lot
of work. It's it's it's a lot of effort.
And that became the first I guess two
chapters really. We then just started to
operationalize what that young man was
doing and we started having classes and
then we started going down to the best
schools to recruit and then we started
to have training programs and we started
to really institutionalize that entire
process and that's really the last 20
years. It hasn't other than technology
>> I'd say that the hiring and profiling of
of what we do hasn't changed
tremendously. the class sizes generally
speaking have gotten bigger as the
market's grown, but you know, we're just
trying to cover everything. So, whatever
that takes in terms of human resources.
Um, you know, I'd say the next chapter
for us, it's been probably the last 5
years, is just can technology really
make an impact on who you focus on. And
there's a lot of firms like ours, I
think, that are trying to do that. I
think the human in the loop still
matters. Uh, that's our belief. Uh, you
know, entrepreneurs aren't just going to
react to the first email they get from
you. So, the fact that you think XYZ
company's super hot doesn't mean they're
going to return your phone call. Uh,
I'll have analysts give you stories of,
you know, 25 phone calls, couple
FedExes, and then landing on somebody's,
you know, street corner, uh, begging to
take a meeting, right? like it's hard
sometimes to get the attention of
somebody who's successful,
>> especially in today's world where
there's probably 30 more 50 more firms
reaching out to that individual, right?
So, we're we've shifted from a world
where capital was a little bit more in
power. It wasn't perfect in even the
90s. It was already shifting, but today
clearly the entrepreneurs got lots of
choice
>> and we're very sensitized to that choice
and really want to make sure that we
meet that. So if I came in today and saw
the current setup um could you describe
it in as much detail as possible? So
like how many people are there? What
like what is how are they given their
assignment? Are they just given free
reign? Do they have a coverage universe?
Like what like just give me the detail
of the actual platform today.
>> First my my management style which is
not very good but can be very effective
for the right people is to throw you in
the water and just say swim.
>> And I think we have a much better
training program right now. So
thankfully I have some of the folks that
have come through the sourcing program
that are still with me have been you
know much better at managing than I am
and and have been able to kind of
institutionalize some of the lessons to
get people up the curve quickly. But you
know within a few months you've learned
what you can learn from the system.
You're learning from your peers but at
the end of the day no one tells you go
call XYZ
industry up. You have to kind of sort
this out yourself. You hear you listen.
Maybe your partner that you work with is
giving you some advice on industries
that they're intrigued by. Uh but it's a
lot of trial by error and and learning
and different folks pick it up in
different ways. Different folks are
better suited for that than other jobs.
But uh it's it's pretty much a a you
know self-starter highly personalized
initiative to get going. We have
probably in aggregate 60 plus people
>> depending on you count 60 to 80 people
that are still heavily engaged. you know
the process has gotten a little bit more
sophisticated because you know founders
also want to meet with more senior folks
and you know we have you know mid-level
folks that could help direct manage and
coach so we have a lot more support for
these folks to be really good and
they're getting daily kind of coaching
from the folks who've been there and
done it
>> I would say that I think almost all the
partners at insight but one or two at
the sort of high investment committee
level started off in that program right
so we've kind of mostly homegrown which
we could have a whole another uh angalon
because I I think this it's an important
story to hear about where the the
insight diaspora has has wound up. We
have largely cultivated our own teams
over the years. Uh what we have done is
you know we also have a very big
practice of uh McKenzie like brains that
are there to help the portfolio. So they
come in also fairly young, maybe two
years at McKenzie and then join insight
and that's another career path for
people to kind of get to know investing
but to know it through the operational
side. It's a fantastic talent pool too.
So we now have I think one of the core
differentiators of insight which again
is a very hard message to get across is
we have the best youngest talent by far
in the world as reflected probably in
the fact that I think we just counted
for this interview I think we have 16 or
18 funds
>> that were started by insight alum I've
got 30 plus partners at other firms
today that were insight alums I'm going
to come back to the people the alumni
effect that you described it's a lot of
funds to have started out of a single
place um so that's really cool coaching
tree like in football or something.
>> That's exactly the email. I use the Bill
Parcel.
>> Yeah, Bill Parcell's coaching tree.
Those 60 people today, how do they
relate to one another? Do they feel like
they're and and what's the incentive
structure like? Am I am I incented to
compete directly with them? And if
there's if there's a good deal, do I
have my own lane? Like how
>> you've got lanes and we've got
technology to claim. I mean, it's
probably a lot like if you were in a
good software company and you looked at
the PDRs and that software company and
sort of looked at the sales folks and
you thought, "All right, who gets what
territory and how we're not going to
give people territory in the same way,
but we're going to give people a chance
to claim a deal."
>> Yeah.
>> And then it sits on their pipe and it
has a certain rules around how long it
could stay in that pipe until it's acted
on,
>> up for grabs again.
>> Then it's up for grabs again. So, it's
sort of a you got the ocean, you could
call whatever you want, but you know,
once it's on somebody's pipe, it's their
deal.
You know, I'd say we try really hard to
encourage collegiality. So, if
somebody's looking at a deal that's not
getting followed on on somebody's pipe,
please pass it and we'll work together
on it. And we tend to overcompensate for
cooperation. So, the general goal is not
to at least have comp be a reason not to
be cooperative.
>> Uh, obviously people like their own
track records and they get a little it's
hard to take type A people and make
them, you know, full, you know, full
players on that, but I think we do a
pretty good job of that. But you know in
general you're going to step on toes. I
think other firms are more delineated by
buckets.
>> You go after infrastructure, you go
after AI, you go after and I think what
we found was just a lot of misses that
way. It's it could be just a partner's
prediliction to doing a certain type of
deal. And so this other kind of deal,
it's just as good, but it's technically
one partner's bucket doesn't get acted
on. And so, you know, we try to create a
little bit more openness to what those
lanes look like. But, you know, we also
know and the partners at the senior
level know, you know, if somebody finds
a cyber deal, there's a few of us that
do a lot of cyber. Like, please share it
with one of us. What's the point of
getting educated and we're all comped
the same. So, we're not exactly trying
to, you know, this is one for all, all
for one to make the firm successful.
And, you know, we try to direct the
deals to where they're both going to get
won and focused on. Is the person
incented to just get a deal to a certain
stage or get a deal that gets done like
and how are is it just like a
salesperson like they're sort of paid
the equivalent of a commission or
something like that on
>> I mean they get paid very good salaries
bonus on that. So I think and the at
this age the money is not the driver for
these guys. I mean, the the the golden
carrot is so big, whether it's at our
firm or somewhere else, of being a
successful investor. By and large, the
real motivation is they want to be
successful and win and deal
>> and have a good deal, right? You don't
want to be pushing a partner to do a bad
deal and
>> have to put that on your resume for the
rest of your life. I don't think
anyone's really just because you got a
couple thousand dollars of But we do get
deal bonus for the 23 year olds that are
making the calls. At what stage does it
get handed from them to some other part
of the business, some other person, some
other diligence process? Presumably,
they're not the ones doing the
underwriting.
>> First of all, we have now about eight
teams which are basically IC members
who've been with me in most cases 20
plus years.
>> Seven six of us together for at least 25
years, you know, a few 10 years. Um, and
that's kind of the pods that we would
basically say these are the senior
people within that. There might be some
other investor MDs, some principles and
VPs. And so it kind of bubbles up. It
starts with maybe a VP or senior
associate working with that analyst that
source the deal and then recognizing all
the key signals to what might be an
exciting company. It's not as tricky as
you might think and maybe the early
stuff is but most of what we do is
pretty clear when something looks
interesting
>> and then it just keeps bubbling up and
then eventually uh it'll elevate to the
IC member on that team and say time to
meet the company and let's get you on a
plane. And sometimes we can't get into
the company without that meeting. So we
know all the external data points point
to hot. We we we see that we're like
okay that founder does not have an
interest in taking a call uh from
somebody more junior. Those junior
people have a lot of influence at my
firm. So they they run my schedule for
sure. For sure. But that's a hard to
crack and you know the partners will get
jumped on planes and you know I've been
this year to Estonia, Sweden, five other
places.
>> You've been there? Yeah.
>> Oh yeah. No, I mean like
>> I think you told me your your your
calendar is dictated by 24 year olds.
>> Totally. They set it up and today every
meeting was, you know, set up by the
analysts, which is fun. I I like it.
It's easy also, by the way, because it's
really hard to get all these meetings
that Yeah.
>> Well, but the part Yeah. The partners
that work at other firms, the nice thing
they have is it their calendar gets
filled up by doing deals, so they can't
do more deals. Sort of a nice regulator
to deal flow. sometimes could catch us a
little bit because it's so much of what
we've done. We've we've kind of
systematized
uh that it's it's relatively easy for us
to get the meetings, but it also means
that like they can go on forever if I
don't like I can't say I'm too busy.
Like these guys are out there hustling.
I want to make sure that they get the
attention they deserve. They're working
so hard.
>> What makes a great sorcerer? Like if you
think across the probably hundreds at
this point of sorcerers you've had over
the last several decades, what
distinguishes the very best of them from
like the merely good?
>> It's got a lot of classic sales skills,
which is hunger, winning, probably lack
of self-awareness. Meaning like you'll
make a phone call to anybody and not
care.
>> Yeah.
>> Ability to handle rejection well. But
combined with a lot of content, right?
So the really good ones are going to get
really deep and those conversations I
have with the founders are shocking. I
had remember one meeting distinctly in
like mid 2000s and the company was in
New York. So I just popped over to meet
the CEO and we ended up investing in
this company. First question out of the
CEO's mouth is you know where's the
analyst like her name? And I was like oh
you just got me sorry like she's still
in the office. Like I didn't really
realize you like so they get really
connected. I mean the letters you will
see us get from founders on the
relationship that the analysts have
built the trust that they built with
these founders and and the work hard
work they do to generate real value for
those founders before we invest
>> is remarkable.
>> If you think about the that skill that
salesmanship and the ability to do
sourcing well if if I were to pull
people like you've talked to so many
founders some would say bad things about
insight what would they say? Would they
say it's annoying how much they call me
or they're trying to pull information
out of me that I don't want to give?
>> Two things. One could be we definitely,
>> you know, they get turned off by that
model. Like I think it's unjust, but it
is what it is. Like some people have a
view they only want to talk to the top.
These are good kids that are really
working hard and and they're going to
get you to the top. And then obviously
rejection is really tough too. So we
probably get by talking to so many
people we're obviously
>> rejected a lot.
>> Yeah. We're and we tried to be really
thoughtful about it and usually what
we're trying to do intentionally is not
reject but postpone because life changes
people's business get better and
sometimes things are just not right for
us then and the last thing you want to
do is is is is damage a relationship
with a founder.
>> In addition to the the sourcing which we
talked about in the one fund concept
another distinguishing feature of
insight is how you've made sequential I
think typically small to begin bets in
new deal types. Um, and if you look
today, like a huge chunk of your assets
are what I would call like private
equity style deals, not venture rounds,
not growth rounds, um, you know,
traditional sometimes, you know, big
private equity rounds. How did something
like that start? What have you learned
about bet sizing for uh, new types of
deals? Because this is really important.
>> Go back in time 90s like software wasn't
big enough to think about buyouts, even
unlevered buyouts, like it just didn't
exist as an industry. There was also a
pretty strong belief broadly in venture
capital that without a founder, like
giving cash to a founder was like a
four-letter word. Like you never do
that. That was like the rule number one.
>> And I bet if you talk to some of the
best of the best and ask them what they
were like in the '90s, secondary sales
to founders were just
not acceptable. I think TA Summit kind
of were breaking that model a little bit
in the '90s. And I think when we dug
into software, we pretty quickly
realized if you built a good software
company, assume that the risk there was
that the founder got demotivated, right?
That was the reason you didn't want to
give him cash. Oh, now he can afford a
house. He's not going to work so hard.
And we just sort of felt like if we
break it, we can own it and we can
manage it. Like we just got a lot more
confidence as we did more of these that
if for whatever reason it didn't work
out with the founder, they decided to
retire, whatever it was, we're okay
running this. Like we could find a new
CEO. We obviously that's a big part of
all venture capital jobs is is is you
know keeping management where you want
and not everything works out with the
original team. Um and so we just the
more confidence we got and then you we
saw I guess two deals that the owners
were not typical shareholders. One was a
former founder that had hired a full
team was out and we bought the company
from him or we bought his shares. We're
like well we don't have to demotivate
him. and we don't even want them
involved in the business. And then the
other was owned by a large insurance
company
>> um which is now called Veraphor, the
software company that we bought. So it
was the first that was the first buyout
I'm aware of in well not sure there was
probably you know a few others that were
not done by private equity firms but um
it was certainly one of the earliest
buyouts in private equity in 2099.
Um and we just started to see the other
side of software as it got bigger that
when they start generating cash flow
which till mid200s very few got to that
scale where you actually saw the profits
and the cash flow coming in and that
particular buyout was interesting. We
were high-fiving with two times leverage
from a crazy hedge fund that believed in
us and that was kind of like considered
a highly levered software asset. Today
Vertor probably has nine times leverage.
Um so very different world but that was
kind of the beginning of of software
buyouts and we made a series of bets
through the mid 2000s. Um and then we
also started looking at uh just taking
control of really high growth companies.
We had a company that was in Australia
and the founders were ready to go
surfing and we had a CEO in our pocket
that was ready to take over and we're
like we'll take that risk. It's, you
know, it's a $5 million business, but we
think we can transition to the new
management team and we had the, you
know, tech team sticking around. And the
more confidence we got that we could own
control of something and not risk the
kind of entrepreneurial DNA that went
into it, um, or it was past that sort of
point where that was critical, uh, the
more we started looking at those types
of deals. And, you know, it's been a
fantastic sector for us. I mean, we've
made a ton of money, especially in the
what I'd call, we call them venture
bias, but the unlevered 30 40% growers.
They're tweeners, right? They're not
growing fast enough for a minority
investor to get super excited except at
a very big discount. And they're not big
enough TAMs for strategics to go jumping
up and down saying, "I need to own this
asset." So, what happens to it?
>> And my suspicion is there tens of
thousands of those now,
>> right? Like, they're good companies.
They should belong somewhere. Um there's
a lot more folks like us now willing to
take those bets. So it's it's not quite
the same market it was a decade ago. But
you know for us again it was just I said
this to my LPs I think this last annual
meeting. Stage is not a strategy to me.
Like you could argue seed investing is a
very different
skill set generally. But I'd say it's
not like we're incompetent to look at
something quite that early. We're not
nearly as good as a lot of the guys out
there and we don't have quite the same
deal flow and buyouts requires a certain
you know transactional skill set that
but pretty straightforward to hire for.
It's not like it hasn't been done
before. There's you know not only in
software but in tons of other industries
there's plenty of skills to do it. Then
everything else is just a spreadsheet
>> sits in between and you're just trying
to as accurately as possible put that
spreadsheet together
>> risk adjust it and then put a price
against it and say what's it going to be
worth. And there's a very big range of
strategy that sits in that middle. And
that was sort of a view that we had that
why constrain ourselves. You know, up
until 2017, late stage preIPO growth was
a really cool market, right? Multiples
were expanding, companies were growing
really fast, typically longer and faster
than you expected. You could actually
make four or five times your money on
those preipo rounds, even more if you
did the consumer internet stuff. And
then it started getting really
competitive, right? hedge funds came in,
sovereign wealths came in and as I
mentioned earlier, some of those rounds
are now getting, you know, modeled at
two to 3x with like a gentleman's a lot
of things have to go right. We could
model them all. Why can't we just put
risk against that model and just try and
find the markets that are the most
attractive? The market recently
corrected in 21. There wasn't a lot of
things that you wanted to touch in
growth because it was a lot of the
companies that raised a ton of money,
they didn't need it, but the ones that
needed it, you didn't necessarily want
to invest in. But then this whole middle
got neglected again, right? And so we're
like, let's go lean back in on the
middle where you've got these 30%
growers that look really nice, cash
flows are good, and you know, their
salmon farms and roller coaster ride
software and things that nobody's really
>> putting a lot of mind to and and and we
did a bunch of those deals back in in 23
24. Uh, and you know, now AI is probably
re-energizing
some of the growth stuff, but you know,
I I like the idea of of being able to
move around the markets based on where
we think the most value is.
>> And they change a lot based on capital
flows.
>> If you look at like the last fund or two
and you had to break that 12 billion or
so down into deal types between like
traditional earlier stage buyout,
venture buyout, however you want to
chunk it up, like what does it look
like? I think early stage is like 10%
call it growth
is probably 30% growth buyout which is
like this what we call venture buyout is
probably another
30 40% and then lbos are probably 20%.
Mhm.
>> And that, you know, moves like the
buyout market looked great when interest
rates were zero and multiples were
expanding and you went from 15 times
cash flow to 20 times cash flow and that
was a pretty interesting time to be
leaning in. It's a little trickier
today, but more entrance prices are
pretty good, rates are higher, multiples
aren't quite as clear, growth rates are
coming down a lot for big cap software.
That's not a fixed number, and we don't
want it to be a fixed number. I mean,
it's it's a guideline. We're never going
to get super early as a big number. I
just think we feel like one those get to
be much bigger checks. They could start
at 10% and grow to 20%. If we if we get
back to an environment where we could be
the lead investor in the next round, you
know, M&A is a huge part of the
strategy. So, if you look at levers for
winning in a venture bot, you get sort
of 30% baked in growth, maybe some
operational improvements, and then
inorganic growth rates that can
consolidate and give you tail outcomes.
If you think about what you want returns
wise for these funds, how do you even
triangulate it given all these different
deal types?
>> Look, I think the buyouts were willing
to take, you know, five points lower
than everything else. Everything else is
blended pretty close to the same. You
know, 30% is kind of a gross number that
you'd say we'd target. We probably miss
a little bit more on the early stuff
than the venture bio. Our hit rates are
just super high. Mhm.
>> Uh just because you've it's a lower risk
profile. So it's sort of a market that's
been a little bit better and very few
competitors. So it's it's played and it
plays perfectly to our sourcing engine,
right? Because how do you find these
companies that are selling salmon
software to the salmon industry? Like
that's not an easy
>> source, right? That's sort of
>> people jumping on planes and calling up
companies in Norway.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so and and again, it's not
mainstream. They're not showing up at
conferences. They're not showing up on
venture capital lists of hot companies
to back or things of that nature.
>> If I look at some of the deals, you
mentioned Whiz, talked about data
bricks, you mentioned Monday, uh,
Enthropic came out in the news recently
that you were an investor in this big
round. That sounds more like
traditional, you know, uh, kind of
venture growth style investment.
>> Well, I mean, whiz, we backed when it
had zero revenue. So,
>> it's a big price, but, you know, we
loved everything we saw, including team.
Uh Monday it was an interesting company
but not the most obvious funded company.
It was you know probably five million in
size when we backed it and Cena is
another public one I'm involved with. It
was sort of four or five million in size
when we got there. So some of them just
grow and have TAMs to support those
exits. But you know it's tempting to
always go for the shiny objects and we
fight a lot internally about you know
how do you become part of the
generational companies. I'm curious to
hear the anthropic story specifically
just since it's so extremely recent and
such an exciting company like and that's
more more along the lines of
>> that's a little bit more driven from our
public strategy just to be clear so it's
not in the core fund that's a good
example of one where had I heard the
story
>> two years ago I would have had a much
more positive view earlier
>> you know and this is a classic case
where you know Darius is phenomenal CEO
has a very very thoughtful articulate
>> view of his business and the second you
hear you're like okay there is a mode or
there might be a mode and obviously the
numbers in the last four months there
are incredible right so it it inlected
with coding and and and the like but
when you sort of think about how he's
invested around that that's not
accidental that was intentional and
probably defensible like you know
there's a risk it's not but you know I
think it's it's a pretty interesting bet
to make
>> what do you make of those 16 or 18 funds
that have emerged from insight and One
way to think about it is, wow, that's
incredible. A lot of talent that's been
able to be independently successful.
Another way is like, why couldn't why
didn't you try to keep them there or
something?
>> We often do. And one of the biggest ones
that came out, I bent over backwards to
see if we could find a role. But in the
end, you know, his entrepreneurial drive
overwhelmed what we could possibly do
without breaking the system. So
sometimes we just can't break our model.
And if you're that good and can raise
that kind of money on your own, I can't
replicate that economics for you. Yeah.
>> Like it's just not doable. Um, and so 1
plus 1 equals three in that case. And we
couldn't have raised the billion dollars
that he was able to raise just on his
track record. So it's just inevitable,
but I think it's it's healthy for us.
And I'd say 80% of them, we still have a
really really good relationship with
these firms. We talk to him all the
time. We do deals together. Um, so it's,
you know, McKenzie, I think, has set a
great precedent out there of what could
be done if you kind of embrace that
network and don't take it as a negative,
but take it as a positive. And then
obviously having partners at other firms
I think is just great for us to see
deals and I'm now a decade or more from
being really close to the analyst
classes that came out. But you know they
go to their weddings. there like it's
incredible. The the pictures I get of
the camaraderie of the classes never
goes away because you're in that pit
working 10-hour days or plus and and in
a pretty tough environment and it's you
know we try to make it fun too but you
know they really connect with each other
and it's it's become real I mean some of
the best friends I think in the world
have probably come out of that. And why
do you think you've been able to
graduate so many people? Like what is it
about the training they get at insight?
That's that's certainly that number is
certainly higher than
>> this is the Bill Parcell's question,
right? Like and I actually think this is
my favorite question for sea level
executives. It's the same question. Who
who are your be best protegs and where
are they now?
>> Right? And I feel good that I can answer
that in a pretty good way. Right? And
certainly when you hear this CEOs out
there that could start rout I have one
good friend of mine who's retired now
but he's got 12 CEOs of some of the
biggest best companies ever some of that
was timing right it was days of Oracle
and Oracle DNA was just awesome but some
of it was him so he obviously built a
great hiring system spotted talent
really well and then cultivated that
talent really well and then had a system
of thinking and approaching in this case
software but in our case investing
that's really valuable but I Ultimately,
the training you get at 23 at Insight is
like no other job in the industry
because all you're seeing is at bats.
>> You were seeing more pitches than any
other firm out there. And you're 23
years old and you're just your brain is
a sponge. It's just looking at all those
pitches and you start seeing your own
patterns and inevitably you're going to
become a pretty good investor. It's
again it's not the same as the
productdriven strategies that other
venture funds have but you know you just
see this you hear and see and hear and
see and and we are a big pattern
recognition business right I think
investing is pattern recognition and
everyone can draw their own you know
graphs out of those patterns but you
know that's fundamentally the core
thesis like you could be the smartest
guy in the world but if you don't see
the patterns or if you don't see the
deals guess what your track record is
not going to be that good.
>> Like so I think that culture and then
the culture of just how important
sourcing is to being a successful
investor. Uh you know we just drill into
people at a very young age and I think
that just sticks with them in their
later life and I think it probably makes
them look good to the peers that they
have that didn't have that culture. If
we're building like a like a Madden
player that has points and different
attributes for something and you were to
give uh yourself scoring on C pick and
win and and and maybe support as well,
but especially interested in C, pick and
win. It sounds like C sourcing you'd
give yourself like
>> that's a firm.
>> Yeah, a crazy high score. Um, you know,
differentiating.
>> We see every pitch. Picking in the
middle is awesome or picking on the edge
is is okay.
>> Say more about what that means. when you
see something that's really kind of got
a little bit of an edge to it on the
source where the numbers are pretty
tight and the valuation kind of is is
not west coast crazy.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. We're really good and we're
really good at winning too. Right. So if
you kind of really think about what I do
for a living, it's
>> I got to find and this is what I told my
LPs day one. You got to find deals.
>> See everything.
>> You got to win deals. You got to pick
them and you got to make them work.
That's it. That's my job. And I'd say on
the picking, we're really good in that
middle zone. and especially some of my
partners better than me even had it that
really can kind of parse the numbers
look at the trends and figure out how to
get that spreadsheet as accurate as
possible at the edges it just inherently
gets harder I think we have some
disadvantages on early relative to
California because we're not getting all
that little like
>> more subtle stuff
>> the whisper is so strong here you got to
lean in so there's that whisper deal
flow and trends that we won't see then
on the buyout side there's just there
there's some equally great investors And
it just it's you know it's a game of you
know combination of discipline uh focus
and and operational execution and
there's some great firms out there. So I
think we're really really good in our
sweet spot. I think we're we still could
use our sourcing to our advantage on the
early stuff but we have to use the
sourcing to get us that edge. I think if
you just you know lined us up against
the best of the best and the valley like
those guys are awesome. Like I'm not
saying we're going to be, you know, able
to connect the dots that they connect
because they're just using different
dots to make what I'd call intangibles
work.
>> Sounds like the winning is is quite
successful in your sweet spot as well.
How do you how do you do that? Like what
what is what are the keys to
successfully closing a deal in that
sweet spot?
>> First and foremost, it's showing up
hard. getting on planes, you know,
invited or uninvited, showing up to
people's doors and and asking them to
have a conversation. So, we started with
just like, gee, we know software really
well. We can introduce you to five
friends who could help you out, run your
sales force, run your marketing
organization to 130 people from super
smart Mackenzie folks that could do any
analytical thinking that you might need
to the best of the best sales process
folks to marketing process to HR
process. We bought a pretty expensive uh
large interest in Riviera Partners which
is the largest tech recruiting firm for
sea level or sort of CTO and CPO talent
um which is you know they're really an
interesting asset especially in the AI
age where talent is everything right so
we put a lot of emphasis on talent we've
got 15 people that do nothing but lies
with Fortune 500 companies which is
probably the biggest you know if you
think if you're a CEO first and foremost
give me revenue if you're a small
company, right? That's number one ask.
Number two ask will be give me people.
So, we've really surrounded those two
functions with resources that we think
could be competitive. And we've helped
jumpst start companies where we've
gotten the first 10 million of revenue,
right? It's a big impact in the journey
of some of these companies in terms of
getting them started. And so, we really
push really hard to to bring that
program to as be as big as it can be.
Uh, and constantly innovating on that.
And so this is and we'll get to sort of
the other chapters of insight, but I
think it's it's it's all about winning.
And so it's a combination of personal
connections, really showing up and
caring about the entrepreneurs problems,
and then helping the entrepreneurs,
right? They have choice. We know they
have choice. They're the winners. We're
just here for the ride. We've talked
before you and I about strategy of
investing firms and how even though all
these firms are investing in companies
that they hope have a great vision and
strategy and and roadmap and all this
kind of thing that investing firms tend
to have that to a less lesser extent uh
either no strategy or or not
>> listening to your podcast I would say
the majority struck me as our strategies
were really good investors. I think if
you really press what I just said that
there's only four things we do, right?
We find deals, we win deals, we select
deals, and we make them work. And then
you sort of put that layer on how do you
do that better than everybody else. Um,
put selection aside because that's the
hardest to kind of institutionalize.
You know, how many firms really can
articulate and there's lots of ways to
do it. You know, Mark Andre was on here
like he has an absolutely great
strategy, totally different than us, and
we could never do what he does. Um, but
he's thinking about it every day and
he's using his sort of marketing engine.
I think he was recently quoted as
basically I'm a marketing firm with an
investment arm. I was like, uh, you
know, I I wanted to be a software
company with an investment arm. That was
kind of my pitch
>> 10 years ago to LP is like that's how I
thought of myself as
>> people could think of us as we know so
much about software. They could
outsource a lot of that knowhow and then
we have an investment arm to monetize
that. But there's lots of ways to skin
the cat. like we've just taken one
approach. I think some firms obviously
could do it just by sheer presence of
being first like and they've made great
investments over decades. Uh other firms
might pick different industries. Some
firms have done it in the biode space
where they've just kind of used capital
combined with expertise to just be able
to kind of lean in faster and harder. So
you know there's lots of ways to create
moat but you know not many of us wake
you know most of us back our way into
this life. I started when I was very
young but I think a lot come to this
after they've had other careers and
other things
>> and this is sort of a nice fun thing to
do and absolutely is and uh you know
putting sort of rigor around that and
operationalizing it and then sort of
looking you know we hired one of my good
friends years ago as a chief operating
officer of Insight. He subsequently
started his own firm but you know he was
a mechanical engineer at McKenzie who
you know spent time at Putinham and
Lehman like he woke up every day and it
was like how do I make that pencil you
know whatever do it something without a
human touching it right like that's how
his brain worked and mine works in a
very similar way from a more strategic
side but you know it's sort of
systematizing what tasks we do that we
could have others do better and then how
do I create moat to the extent that it's
possible because look capital is not a
huge mode. Uh it was with the vision
fund that was like awesome strategy. I
just outraised everybody in a way that I
could do deals that no one else could
do. You know, Warberg Pink has had that
for a while too. When I first joined,
they were significantly larger than
almost anyone else out there. But that's
increasingly difficult. I think Toma
Bravo could do that today with their
scale in the bio world. Capital's
tougher though. So, you just need to
think about those four disciplines and
say, "Well, how am I going to be way
better?" Some guys do it by, you know,
appearing on podcasts and and really
getting their their thought out and
their vision and and kind of excite the
founding community of how smart they are
about an industry. That's a perfectly
legit way to get deals.
>> Uh others, you know, have cultivated
networks in different ways and and
winning could be I'm just going to get
on the plane and do it. An individual
partner that, you know, works my tail
off and it's not very leverable, but
it's certainly a good strategy. So I
think you know how do you
institutionalize systematize that and
operationalize it is not easy. We found
also scale was a real opportunity and I
I heard Mark Andre talk about this too
like every industry but ours was
considered to be better as they got
bigger. Like for some reason this type
of investing, tech investing was like,
"No, we want you to be a cottage
industry where the smartest partners
just do all the work."
And I remember very distinctly sitting
down with one of my partners in 2015 and
I'm like, why do LPs have this allergic
reaction to the word scale? Because
again, everywhere else it seems good.
And I looked at those four buckets of
what we do. I'm like, well, clearly
sourcing is better with scale. like
could see everything. Like
>> yeah,
>> might have to debate how you pick, but
like great that you get every pitch. Um
you could certainly see how winning can
get better with scale. I've got more
resources. I could support every round
that you need. I could be your one-stop
shop. And then obviously on the
operational side, that's the biggest
impact scale could have because now I
could really hire the best and the
brightest on my team that could support
your business in whatever way you need.
And then selecting was kind of like the
one, okay, how does that scale? And that
was kind of a bit of a hard one for us
to to wrestle around a decade ago. Most
firms that scaled scaled in a few
dimensions that were understandably
scary for an investor. One was, I'll do
bigger deals. How do we know the bigger
deals are like the smaller deals? Like
maybe they're priced differently. Maybe
the competitive landscape's different.
maybe the economics like there's a lot
of reasons why just writing a bigger
check may not yield in fact often won't
yield better returns. Um so scaling by
check size was not necessarily a clear
direction in my view of how to do bigger
to do scale. Some might scale with
geography. We tried that. Oh was that
painful like brutally painful. We're you
know we're 90% in New York City by
headcount and probably 100% by
investment.
you know, commitments. Certainly IC is
all in New York, right? It's really hard
to export judgment.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, you know, we had a European team
that raised a European fund and I, you
know, it was the worst of all timing. It
was 2000 and like, okay, that was bad.
But, you know, I was ready to pull my
hair out. It was so hard to create
consistent thinking and judgment that
you could say, okay, that judgment
reflects the same judgment that we built
over the 5 10 years before that at
Insight. But geographic scaling is a
really common strategy for a lot of
folks. But I think I could see why LPs
would be nervous about that.
>> Um, and then lastly, people scale by
doing something that they weren't doing
before. Right? Okay. Like I'm a great
software investor. Now I'm going to do
healthcare. Now I'm going to do
financial services or now I'm going to
do credit or something maybe that's
outside my core competency. And you
know, look, Blackstone, others have done
that really successfully. Um, but you
could argue it's not easy. Maybe
Blackstone did a great job of it, but
two other firms, you know, didn't get
those top cortile funds in the areas
that they didn't have a lot of
experience in trying to scale. And
certainly, there's plenty of examples
where firms, you know, bought something
in a different asset class and struggle
to to make it work. And so, we kind of
said, well, we don't need to do any of
those things. Like, software's just
growing. We're barely scratching the
surface. Why can't we just do more of
good deals in the category we love and
know?
>> And if we put aside all those other
ideas and said, "We're not going to just
chase bigger deals because they're
bigger. We'll do a bigger deal because
the world's gotten bigger." That's fine.
Data Bricks, if you just divide
everything by 10, looks like a great
classic growth deal. Like there's
nothing unique about it other than it
just happens to have more zeros
>> in its business model. Open AI even more
true, right? I mean, if you just turn 12
billion into 12 million, you're like,
"Wow, this is a fast growing company."
Like, why wouldn't I jump at writing a
$10 million check? So, some of this was
just
just looking at a world that's just
gotten tremendously bigger to when we
first started where that would be a good
reason to write a bigger check.
But if we sort of just said, "We're
going to keep the same underwriting
criteria in the same market and just
grow with the market. The market's
getting bigger, which means there's more
good deals out there. we're really good
at winning them and finding them. Why
shouldn't we consider them? Like why why
should we just stick to some smaller
strategy or just sort of artificially
constrain what we do if again
understandable you want to keep a bar
high and we've definitely over the years
sometimes been caught up in the moment
if you will. So I think we looked at
scale in that lens and we're like this
is win-winwin
and we were in the right position to do
it because we were organizationally
already aligned on sourcing. We were
already aligned on management. So we had
to really think through the investing
side and the selection side and that was
the part that we definitely didn't do
perfectly to start where you start to
have you know we hire young kid becomes
less young becomes principal and
ultimately junior partner and they were
on their own and we kind of had a little
bit of like partners are underwriting
deals we bring it to the investment
committee and we debate the deals which
is pretty typical I'd say of a lot of
firms that have grown is they have
senior partners young partners but
usually they're kind of all doing their
own I call the tennis match, right?
Everybody goes out, plays tennis,
compare scores, and yeah, we won the
match or we won the we won the whatever
the tournament. So, we were trying to be
more like a soccer team, but we played
tennis for a little while, and we
realized that, you know, young partner
has a deal, comes to me, and it's like,
"Mom and dad, I'm a little busy. Jeff's
not really paying. He's only hearing
oneird of what's coming in out of my
mouth." I pitch him the deal, he nods
his head, we do the deal. Deal blows up.
Jeff doesn't want to spend time on it
because I didn't really take ownership
of it. And all of a sudden, Young
Partner is now stuck with a a deal
that's in trouble. And we're like, "This
isn't working right. We need to think
about legitimately how you get the most
experience on the judgment as well as
the other parts of the operation that
were more obvious." And so we kind of
said, "Well, look, there's some of us
who've been here at the time, it was six
of us for 20 years. We've all built
track records. We've all been through
multiple cycles. Why don't we just we
have enough time in the day to meet
every company that a team of people that
would work with us including young
partners sources like we don't do that
many deals a year like except for 2021
but um like it wasn't an insurmountable
number. It wasn't like I needed to spend
20 hours on another partner's deal. I
but three hours I can get a lot of
>> instincts
>> judged and you know my instincts may be
more on I'll call it the t intangible
sort of excitement around the deal other
partners are really good at the
financial side and you know we keep
tweaking that a little bit but that was
fundamentally a breakthrough in how we
can try and scale judgment without
breaking the model and saying let's just
have pods of very experienced partners
managing and working with other partners
both operating partners and young,
hungry deal partners uh and combine that
DNA into a more cohesive team approach
and then make sure that an investment
committee member owns every single deal
>> and if somebody leaves it's on me. If
somebody screws up, it's on me and
there's no hiding it. Like
>> that's what that's what we did. M one
thing you hear a lot is even in firms
where there's your level of sort of
systematic setup and rigor that it's
really important that leading the
leading investors be able to just throw
everything out and sometimes make a deal
or do a deal based mostly on the
intangibles based most not in the
spreadsheet but but out of the
spreadsheet. Can you talk about your
experience with that sort of thing and
how you think about that type of deal?
we can mobilize 15 people from my
Mackenzie brains to my sales ops team or
marketing ops team or you name it to
dive in and really try and uncover as
much as we can in that very short time
window that we have. I probably am the
only one who does what I call concept
deals
>> at a big price.
>> Even I'm not doing that right now. Like
I don't feel compelled to do that at the
moment. So I'll do a little bit of those
on the smaller side.
>> Uh where I feel like it's a unique team
with unique technology and there's not a
lot of numbers to support it, but that's
going to be a allocated part of the
portfolio that's going to be very small.
>> So that's more riskmanaged again by
check size and we have that benefit. So
when we start seeing something that
maybe our spidey senses are tingling and
we're like this could be something
special, maybe we could use check size
to manage it more intelligently. But
it's really not a big part of the
portfolio. It's not what our DNA is
about. I mean, we started with growth.
Not saying we're only in growth, but we
try to put some metrics around most of
what we do.
>> One of the spillover effects of 2021 is
all these companies that got funded with
tremendous amounts of capital that don't
really have to die because they had so
much money put into them.
>> I think they're starting.
>> Maybe they're starting. One of the weird
things is that there's not market prices
haven't really like caught up to the
reality of the underlying businesses.
And I'm curious to just get for your
perspective on what things are generally
worth in terms of like a simple multiple
or something like everyone kind of
thinks in 10, you know, 10 times
multiple or something for a software
business, but I think you think these
things are often worth way way less.
>> Yeah. And by the way, you could see this
with the secondary market. It's a little
hidden secret, but you know, go look at
how some things trade in the secondary
market. You're like, okay, your marks
aren't exactly right.
>> If when you're at 70 cents on the
dollar, your marks aren't on us. So I
think look, we look at
GDR growth rate. Those are the two
things we're going to look at in
valuations. And that could be a really
disappointing three or four times
revenues
for a lot of companies that were backed
in that time frame where they're not
growing fast and they have low GDR. What
would those numbers be like? What would
an example of like three times revenue,
GDR, and growth rate be?
>> Meaning
>> like if you're to pay three times for
something, what GDR and growth rate does
that imply? That might be low
singledigit growth and 80% GDR.
>> So if you go into the public markets and
look at those companies like they're
disasters,
>> right? And they're not few are even
public today, right? And it was a
category that early SAS a lot of those
went public and ultimately the markets
caught up to the unit economics. But the
public markets by and large and private
markets at scale. So the PE guys are
looking for okay I'm gonna long term
this is cash flow and so to us GDR is
largely and look you could have a really
we have a company which now Vista owns
that you know has a mid 80s GDR but it's
CAC is 3 months which is a very low
number in the world of CAC so you can
make a 30% margin business if it's an
infinitely sized market with a
relatively low CAC um so there's an
exception to everything I'm about to say
but if you're in a more normal
normalized enterprise world, you're
going to have 12-month CAC, which means
it's one year upfront to get that
customer on board. And if they only last
for four years, you can kind of do the
math and say, well, that's present value
worth maybe two two and a half times to
one time dollar invested plus I've got
R&D, plus I've got support GNA, you're
not gonna make a lot of money. So those
companies tend to be in the 10% maybe
maybe squeak out 20% margin versus a
100% GDR company will have 50 60%
margins. So that if you just thought of
multiples of cash flow translating to
multiples of revenue that's going to
give you a big delta, right? So if I'm
willing to pay 15 times cash flow for a
given growth rate, a 20% margin business
is three times revenues. A 50% margin
business is, you know, 7 and a half
times revenues. I think the markets more
or less eventually will look into that
kind of financial model and they'll kind
of figure out and look some companies
could take they're just super efficient
in other ways. So you could still have
some of those metrics that I just
described being a little bit off but
still get yourself to ultimately you're
trying to get to cash flow margins,
right? That's all that matters is
multiples of cash flow and then
predictability of that cash flow in a
recession. How good do you feel in
whatever times in you know whatever
existential risk somebody could come in
your model and disrupt it. So those are
just I think the framework that I think
most public investors and and certainly
latestage buyout guys are thinking right
is how resilient is that cash flow? Are
you running a core banking system for,
you know, a bunch of banks? Like that's
not getting ripped out in a recession.
Like you don't really care about a
recession. Um what's the growth rate of
that cash flow? And then, you know,
what's a reasonable multiple based on
that? And some of that will be interest
rate sensitive. Uh and then obviously
you have a different world once you
start to get to 100% growth rates of
which there are very few public company
data points but that's when you start to
see wonky multiples like you just can't
model those out in your exits because
they're just so on they're rare earth
>> kind of numbers. One of the things that
I'm curious about the temptation around
just given how the market's evolved is
uh the Andres of the world, the sort of
like nonsoftware technology companies
that some of which have gotten quite big
quite quickly and consumer too for us
>> and consumer
>> right I mean if you look at the biggest
exits of the last generation they were
internet and mobile apps
>> and we did not really lean in on that
because it was sort of outside our kind
of understanding and mandate. It also
really favored the West Coast. Almost
all those were West Coast.
>> Yeah.
>> Designed. You know, we looked at Uber at
a really attractive round. We fought
like hell as a partnership over it and
we finally passed. Obviously, huge
mistake, right? Like it was a great
outcome. Managed to get Twitter over the
line, which you know, at the time was we
got out even before Musket all took
over. But um
I think we've just gotten comfortable
that our our misses are so high in those
categories over the years that we're
like whatever. There's we can't be
everybody to everything and we can't do
it all. It it's obviously
hard because you sometimes have to
benchmark yourself against folks who do
have exposure to the markets that might
be the better markets. But, you know,
just sticking to what we know well in in
enterprise software and sort of flavors
of that, it's both massive in
opportunity and the returns could still
be incredibly consistent.
>> When you think about the god knows how
many first meetings that you've done
with founders across the last 30 years
or so, how would you describe the method
that you use to run those personally?
And I'm sure obviously different
investors on your team will do it
differently, but I'm especially curious
about your method. How do you like to
run a first meeting? What kinds of What
are you after? like what's the
>> I mean I have a I've developed I'd call
a similar line of start which is I love
origin stories. What was in your mind?
Why' you choose to solve this problem?
What were you doing before that made you
think about this problem? Uh and then I
love to get to the value problem. Like I
just love hearing how you're making
somebody's life different and better and
why customers are going to be excited
about buying your solution. And I
actually, it's probably my why I need
partners is, you know, I'm I'm probably
the least focused on drilling in on the
numbers. I mean, I like to hear the
topline numbers, but entrepreneurs
probably aren't always the most uh
forthright about what they give you.
Like they give you a little more happy
ears on on those usually, but which is
where diligence can kind of corroborate
or not. But those are kind of the
stories I want to hear is like what
makes you tick and what's this passion
that you have about what problem and
why? And you know those those really
range a lot in response. Like you hear
enough people pitch and you're like that
one really resonates. You know elevator
pitch. I got it. And you know some you
need to double click double click double
click. You know I was on the call today
with one that I was like I think I hear
you but this was a little bit in a
different language. So it was a little
harder for me to process to begin with.
But I'm not quite getting that mode. I'm
not quite getting that long-term
direction of where you're going to be.
Um, doesn't mean it wasn't there, but
this is a 45minute call. Like, you're
not going to nail it exactly. And
sometimes the numbers tell you way more
than the story, right? Like, you need to
always take a look when you see numbers
that are exceptional. When you have the
group of partners that you have at the
top that you said have been with you 25
years, sometimes 10 years is like the
newbies on the team at the senior level
to what do you attribute that like? What
is your management style with those
people? How do you relate to them? What
would they say about you?
>> I'm pretty forgiving on mistakes.
>> Uh I would think some of my partners
would say too forgiving, but I I try to
see inputs. I have a thing that we
institute at Insight. It's changed a
little bit from the vision, but I call
it the X factor. like because everyone
always want you know type A employees
they always want to know where their
careers are going and you know always
ask me these tough questions like how do
you give somebody really valuable career
advice in what we do because the outputs
are so long in coming
>> and uh and there's so much luck let's
not kid ourselves like there's a lot of
luck in what we do and I sort of start
with like well if I took you out what
would have happened
>> with the deal still open sourced, would
we have won the deal? You know, would we
have decided to do the deal? Like how
much of that those decisions did you
play in in that process? And
X is sort of like the removal of you.
Are you adding X to that equation? One
of my best partners had a really slow
start.
You know, he just made a lot of
mistakes, but I saw his inputs were
great. I thought the way he was thinking
about things was great and he was like a
sponge to get better and now he's
probably the best investor in the firm,
right? Like so it it it people learn,
people get better. It's a marathon.
Obviously at some point, you know, the
marathon ends, but you know, I think
that's generally how I try to approach
it. And I think my style is is similar
to what we do with the analysts is is
really to give people an environment
where they could be creative,
take risk. I think probably the thing
that I still do the best for the firm at
large is there's two different
approaches I think to a senior partner
at a firm. One is the one that's
constantly holding you back from falling
off a cliff, scaring you to take a risk.
The other one's shoving you over the
cliff
>> and giving you the confidence it's okay.
I'm with you. I've got your back if it
doesn't work out.
>> And I think I'm definitely in the latter
camp, right? My goal is I call it the
tush push, right? Like I'm there at the
one line. you're at the one yard line,
you've got one little thing nagging you
about the deal. And I'm like, it's okay.
You've thought about it well. The
riskreward is good. It may not work out.
It's not your career in the line if it
doesn't.
>> And I think a lot of young folks get
really worried about if you look at
generational firms, risk appetite is
probably the biggest challenge
>> that it goes down.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And some once in a while
they get a wacky successful investor who
just re-energizes the firm's risk
tolerance and it goes back up again. But
more often than not it gets consumed by
look this is a great business. If you
don't get fired you're going to be
pretty successful. So you know the
impetus to really stick your neck out on
the spectrum is really low. And I think
people especially in these kind of
bigger organizations really, you know, I
hope they make mistakes. You know, my
biggest frustration with one of my
partners who left was the things he
didn't do. Why didn't we do that deal?
Like that was a really and you know, he
always had five reasons not to do it.
But you know, in the end, he was very
conservative and to the point where we
missed a bunch of really good things.
So, you need the balance. I I've got a
lot of partners who are holding people
back from the cliff. So, it's it's a
good yin-yang of of of some folks that
are going to make you feel really scared
to stick your neck out, but then
hopefully, especially my senior
partners, knowing I've got their back
always, like I am never going to get
upset with somebody if they took a
calculated risk that didn't go well. I'm
curious how you think about something
seismic like AI both in terms of how it
will affect the companies that you
already own stakes in or own outright as
a disruptive force how you use it
yourself to make insight work better um
investment opportunities that it creates
like an anthropic I mean there's a lot
going on with this with this with this
nuclear bomb that's gone off in a good
way how do you how do you process it
>> yeah I remember like a bunch of years
ago even before the chat GBT aha moment
and I'm not like the technology ology
wizard in the firm by any stretch. But I
I we were already doing vision deals and
I could see language was next. I was
like, imagine if you can automate vision
and language in the workforce. I'm like,
there's a lot of jobs where that's
pretty much what you do.
>> And so, you know, I started talking
about it at some of the LP meetings and
then we were doing the vision stuff
which was not in any way exploding like
the language has exploded. Not sure why,
like never got the buzz. I don't know.
But vision just for whatever reason was
good but not compelling. And you could
look at, you know, MRI companies and
they're like 10 years later they're 80
million doing it's like the biggest one
maybe. Like what happened to that? I I
can't explain it.
>> But for some reason the language took
off. We looked at other waves and we
were it was pretty easy for us to kind
of sit on the sidelines. Others on your
show are big fans of blockchain. Maybe
now it's crypto because the blockchain's
like no one could articulate the use
case and it was back when I debated this
with people. I was like, "It's 12 years
in. Come on." Like,
>> "Yeah, should be something.
>> Something should be, you know, and
there's a whole religion around it and
maybe someday every bank will be on it
and whatever." But it's definitely way
longer than anyone forecast to be
valuable. And I certainly had a used to
there was like a funny story someone
told me, but it was basically like all
the technology guys that love
that know the blockchain think the
technology is kind of meh, but the
finance aspects of it are really cool.
And all the finance guys are like, you
know, the finance aspects of this aren't
so great, but the tech looks really
cool. I'm like, huh? Nobody in who's got
really the the right DNA on both. Like,
nobody was like, this is the best
database I've ever seen in my life,
>> you know, who understood database
technology. And finance guys are like,
this isn't really how the world in
finance is going to work. You know,
we've got reasons. Anyway, so we've kind
of like looked at other waves of
technology and been a lot more sanguin
about the potential and whether it was
even the self-driving car like we that
was a big hot spot a decade ago that was
more vision and this one is different. I
mean both and I don't know if it was the
problems it could solve immediately.
This certainly the consumer side of this
is just I
blow I mean it's mind-blowing what you
could do as a consumer and I mean just
watching my own family in the last 3
months convert from Google search to
Gemini or chat GPT and just like just
religious right so it's it was a
gamecher in so many ways and really we
kind of were playing around the edges of
it in some ways and then really about a
year ago we started to see the
application of it where we really played
the most in the commercial landscape and
now you're seeing phenomenal we probably
have 25 agentic AI bets that we think
could be really profound in in the
commercial markets and so you know we've
been noodling on all sorts of
sort of impacts it's going to have but
you know it's clearly a phenomenal
growth engine it's also sucking a lot of
the air out of the traditional software
market so I think the bare case on
software hey I could just use claw to my
next SAP. We're not losing any sleep
over that. Quite the opposite.
>> Why? Why not?
>> Because that's not what software ever
was. It was never a technology barrier.
>> It was always a business knowledge
barrier. And yeah, maybe you could
literally have AI look at SAP and
plagiarize it and try and build
something equivalent. But I I'm just not
worried about that market changing. The
cost of developing first of all, we
haven't seen any of it in our companies.
Like the cost of developing software,
it's inching down, but it's not
collapsing overnight. And I can't
explain exactly why, but the idea that a
complex application is going to get
built just because we have a better
productivity tool. You know, we've gone
through generations of productivity
tools in software development. This is
more profound for sure, but you know,
for those who are old enough on this
call, like the 4GL was a pretty profound
tool, too, because back in the day, you
just had a database with a screen,
>> right? applications weren't all that
complicated and the 4GL was meant to
basically make it really easy to build
the screens and it was impactful but it
didn't radicalize every SAP and all
these other companies didn't get
displaced because of it. I think it's
but it's taking away a lot of probably
budget. So I think you'll probably be
seeing a lot of companies just feeling
the pain of like that's not the cool kid
on the block to buy a CRM software
today. like that's just not my priority.
I want to automate something else. So
that matters like that's growth rates. I
I I'm not there's obviously a few
companies that are probably more
squarely challenged by what it can do
because they're probably working around
documents and you know doing image
recognition things like that that you oh
so what's your what's your point of
existence now? But I think by and large
I don't worry about the usefulness of
software so much as the budget being
moved away from software to AI. And then
on the flip side,
which is what we're really focused on,
is it's a massive TAM accelerator.
>> So, okay, my core software is not as
sexy, but now I could go after a whole
set of problems that my customers have
>> that I before could never automate. So,
you know, I'm on the board of, you know,
a couple I won't even pick on the public
ones, but like, you know, CRM like
vertical applications where we're just
capturing data, but 95% of the the
person's day is generating and getting
the data. Well, if I could automate a
big portion of the 95% of the time that
you're, you know, getting data into the
system, that's hugely valuable. And so
to me, we've got already maybe a half a
dozen or more companies really
reacelerating
off of new products that they've
launched in very short time frames uh
that are creating massive TAM expansion
for their businesses. And I have no
doubt the bigger public companies are
working aggressively at the same thing
like Microsoft, right? Like it's it's an
opportunity. Microsoft looks at that.
Could I build a new PowerPoint with it?
Probably. I don't know, maybe.
Can I make PowerPoint the existing
product way better with a co-pilot?
Yeah, you probably can. And I think
that's way more interesting or Adobe
like how much better is Adobe that has a
3% market share of humans to Photoshop
and now could expand it to 20% because
the user interface and learning curve
has gone down by an order of magnitude.
>> So my suspicion is this is largely TAM
expanding for the established companies.
they will build products as well. I
don't think it's a great use of time in
most of the legacy apps to be trying to
outgineer them with a new product. It's
just there's just more to that market
than just the actual body of code that
runs your core banking. There's just a
lot more going on and I think we're
still quite a ways away from even
getting to the point where the the the
speed to which you could build software
is so dramatically better. You said
before that uh you really just like to
win and that's maybe like a major driver
of all your activity. You have this
interesting combination of you seem
pretty low-key like you're not uh just
like you just seem kind of low-key and
yet the activity your activity and the
firms is quite intense and it's kind of
an interesting dichotomy and I'm curious
where the drive to win came from. I
don't care about other beating other
people
>> so much as just satisfaction in my own
success in winning. So it's a different
kind of
drive than I think other people get,
which is I I have friends who I play
golf with. Like I can't play without
betting. Like they can't have fun. They
can't try hard if they don't have
something on the line, right? That's how
competitive they are. But they're
competitive against me.
>> They want to beat me. Like that's what
drives them. I'm like I just want to get
my own
>> score as low as possible. if you shoot a
65, I'm high-fiving you, I'll buy you a
beer. I'll I'll be the happiest guy to
give you 20 bucks. Like, I don't really
care at all if I have a good round. So,
I think that's just and I think the
culture of the firm has maybe modeled
after that. I attracted people like
that, but I would say the majority of us
are much more focused on our own success
than it is that somebody else isn't
>> at the other end of that successful.
And that's kind of what just gets us a
little endorphins for for the day.
>> These conversations always go the same
direction where 98% of the conversation
is about buying and almost none of it's
about selling. What have you learned
about selling? Selling well, when to
sell.
>> Had a good year on that one. So, we've
sold a lot this year. But I think the
easy things are the ones that come
naturally. IPO, strategic knocks on your
door, people pull you in, you sell.
You know, the harder one is when you
have to push it to make it happen. I
think at one point 999, we had a 4x on
our 99 fund in the public markets that
we couldn't sell. We were locked up and
by the time we could get off the lockup,
it was down to a 1x. So, you know, these
things, these are quick windows. They
come and go and you kind of learn and
look some of this was also we we put co
as a piece of it which was a combination
of the demand shift and change you know
some ideas that look great 2021 you know
virtual conferences looked like a great
idea and it felt like that could really
have legs even postco no the answer is
they had no legs after co and then some
of it was just us like decision-m
probably not what we thought it was over
zoom and you know we had like everybody
else a year of, you know, remote work.
Really, really bad. Never going to do
that again.
>> If you think about the next decade of
Insight, how do you think it'll change?
>> We're feeling like much more of a rinse
and repeat model. I don't think we have
crazy ambitions to expand the business
beyond what we're really good at. And
just I think this is a just kind of
we'll we'll absorb what we think are
great deals, but the bar has never been
higher. Since 20 summer of 22, we've
just really been pretty focused on uh on
really making sure that you know we make
as much money as possible for LPS.
>> So I think it's going to be I'll call it
a little bit more boring. like you know
I I had at one time firm building
ambitions that I still have a little bit
of but you know where we could add
assets that were again making us the
world's best software company right like
what would make me a great partner for
my portfolio we still have some of that
ambition but it's it's going to take a
different flavor
>> is there anything essential about
insight that you feel like we've messed
with
>> I think culture is and others have
probably talked about it but there's
definitely I think a lot of positives on
our culture that don't get seen by
entrepreneurs. I think it's a
combination of
we don't have to be the loudest voice at
the table ever. Um, we want to be the
most helpful voice at the table and we
don't need credit for that help. So, we
want to stand behind the founders who
really do a lot of good work. I think
internally that reflects itself in as
much as you can do in this industry, a
really collaborative teamwork approach
and we've got a big firm and there's no
doubt you'll always have people stepping
on toes but I think by and large the
idea is to really support each other in
a meaningful way. Um obviously we talked
about the part of winning which is a big
part of us um but we also just never
want to give up. So, I I know some folks
have been on your podcast about, you
know, sort of sticking it out till the
bitter end. And maybe to a fault we do
that, too. But we really really want to
be there to the end. Like, we're
leaders. We're not passive investors.
Somebody's going to be on top of these
companies until the end. And it's
important for us to kind of even though
that's not where you make money, those
are the worst hours of ROI that you can
possibly get is taking a deal that's
gone sideways and and try and fix it.
But a it's really satisfying on the few
times that you can actually turn it
around and b just feels like it's it's
it's a the right thing to do.
>> Well, it's really cool to get the inside
view on this. I I it's a firm you hear a
lot about because it's so big. you've
made so many great investments over the
years, but you don't it's very hard to
figure it out from the outside and so
thank you for the two hours. It's such a
such a fun time to explore it. When I
finish these, I always ask the same
traditional closing question. What is
the kindest thing that anyone's ever
done for you?
>> I sort of think that first you need to
be someone to be kind to you. It's out
of the goodness of their heart, not out
of their own self-interest. And I'm
somewhat fortunate not to have that many
situations where I've needed that help.
But I I guess as others have said in
this mentoring is is one area where I
feel like that's always been you know an
area where people didn't you know some
of it might be broadly self-interested
but most of that is selfless and I've
had you know two examples but my first
job at Warberg
uh the person I work for there pulled me
out of a hat in terms of resume saw
something in me that no one else did. I
think I tried getting a job at a 100
firms and he was the only one who was
willing to hire me. Um, and I learned a
lot in that experience as well. But then
I think when I started Insight, we sort
of randomly bumped into uh an indent by
the name of Steve Freeman who was the
just then retired CEO of Goldman Sachs.
And I think it was a mutual connection
from one of the high net worth guys at
Goldman that knew one of my partners.
And Steve, for reasons I still don't
know, one of the nicest guys I've ever
met, took me under and gave me amazing
counsel in the first decade, ultimately
introduced me to his co-CEO, Bob Rubin,
who also became part of that mentoring
and just was such a nice access for me
who had no one else to talk to other
than, you know, it's like nice to air
issues, challenges
>> and and focus. So, you know, that to me
was certainly one of the best things
that happened to my career.
>> Incredible. Jeeoff, thank you so much
for your time.
>> Awesome.
[Music]